# API Documentation: SMODS.Enhancement
**Class prefix:** `m`
- **Required parameters:**
	- `key`
    - `loc_txt` or localization entry [(reference)](https://github.com/Steamodded/smods/wiki/Localization)
- **Optional parameters** *(defaults)*:
	- `atlas = 'centers', pos = { x = 0, y = 0 }` [(reference)](https://github.com/Steamodded/smods/wiki/SMODS.Atlas#applying-textures-to-cards)
    - `config = {}, no_collection, prefix_config, dependencies, display_size, pixel_size` [(reference)](https://github.com/Steamodded/smods/wiki/API-Documentation#common-parameters)
        - The following base values for `config` are supported and will be scored automatically:
        ```lua
		{
			bonus,
            bonus_chips,
			mult,
			x_mult,
			p_dollars,
            h_mult,
            h_x_mult,
		}
	    ```
        - Note: `discovered` and `unlocked` on enhancements are currently unsupported.
    - `replace_base_card`: If `true`, don't draw base card sprite or give base card chips.
    - `no_rank`: If `true`, enhanced card has no rank.
    - `no_suit`: If `true`, enhanced card has no suit.
    - `overrides_base_rank`: If `true`, enhancement cannot be generated by Grim, Familiar and Incantation *(enhancements with `no_rank` set to true are automatically assigned this property)*.
    - `any_suit`: If `true`, enhanced card counts as any suit.
    - `always_scores`: If `true`, enhanced card always counts in scoring.
	- `weight`: The weighting of the enhancement, follows same rules as other weighted objects *(default weight is 5)*.

## API methods
- `calculate(self, card, context)` [(reference)](https://github.com/Steamodded/smods/wiki/Calculate-Functions)
- `loc_vars, locked_loc_vars, generate_ui` [(reference)](https://github.com/Steamodded/smods/wiki/Localization#Localization-functions)
- `get_weight(self) ->  number `
	- Used to modify the weight of enhancement on certain conditions.
- `set_ability(self, card, initial, delay_sprites)`
	- Set up initial ability values or manipulate sprites in an advanced way.
-  `in_pool(self, args) -> bool, { allow_duplicates = bool }`
	- Define custom logic for when a card is allowed to spawn. A card can spawn if `in_pool` returns true and all other checks are met.
	- When called from `generate_card_ui`, the `_append` key is passed as `args.source`.
- `update(self, card, dt)`
	- For actions that happen every frame.
- `set_sprites(self, card, front)`
	- For advanced sprite manipulation that happens when a card is created or loaded.
- `set_badges(self, card, badges)`
	- Add additional badges, leaving existing badges intact. This function doesn't return; add badges by appending to `badges`.
	- Avoid overwriting existing elements. It will cause text to appear on the top left corner of your screen instead.
	- Function for creating badges: `create_badge(_string, _badge_col, _text_col, scaling)`
		- `_string`: Text displayed on the badge.
		- `_badge_col = G.C.GREEN`: Background colour.
		- `_text_col = G.C.WHITE`: Text colour.
		- `_scaling = 1`: Relative size of the badge.
	- Example:
	```lua
	{
		set_badges = function(self, card, badges)
			badges[#badges+1] = create_badge(localize('k_your_string'), G.C.RED, G.C.BLACK, 1.2 )
		end,
	}
	```
- `set_card_type_badge(self, card, badges)`
	- Same as `set_badges`, but bypasses creation of the card type / rarity badge, allowing you to replace it with a custom one.
- `draw(self, card, layer)`
	- Draws the sprite and shader of the card.

## Util methods
- `SMODS.poll_enhancement(args)` *(defaults)*
	- `args.key`, the key used to generate the seed
    - `args.type_key`, an optional key used to generate the specific enhancement seed
    - `args.mod`, multiplying modifier to the base rate (40%)
    - `args.guaranteed`, if `true`, enhancement is guaranteed
    - `args.options`, can be used to provide fixed options to the pool
        - `{ keys }`, a table of keys as strings, respects original weight values
        - `{ {key = string, weight = number} }`, a table of tables, with key and weight pairs
- `SMODS.get_enhancements(card, extra_only)`: Returns a table indexed by keys of enhancements that the given card has.
    - `Card:calculate_joker` is called for each joker with `context = { check_enhancement = true, other_card = card }`, expecting return tables in the same format to add extra enhancements. No other ways to give a card multiple enhancements are currently supported.
    - If `extra_only == true`, the card's base enhancement is excluded.
- `SMODS.has_enhancement(card, key)`: Returns `true` if the given card has the specified enhancement, either as its natural enhancement or an extra enhancement from jokers.
- `SMODS.has_no_suit(card)`: Returns true if a card doesn't have any suit due to its enhancements (e.g., Stone Cards).
- `SMODS.has_any_suit(card)`: Returns true if a card can be used as any suit due to its enhancements (e.g., Wild Cards).
    - Cards with enhancement effects both for having no suit and for having any suit can be used as any suit.
- `SMODS.has_no_rank(card)`: Returns true if a card doesn't have any rank due to its enhancements (e.g., Stone Cards).
- `SMODS.always_scores(card)`: Returns true if a card always scores due to its enhancements (e.g., Stone Cards).